<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Editor’s Note</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="editors-note" epub:type="foreword">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Editor’s Note</h2>
			<p>Henry Rider Haggard was born at Bradenham Hall, in Norfolk, in 1856, and received his early education at the Ipswich Grammar School. In 1875 he went to Natal as secretary to Sir Henry Bulwer, and in the following year he visited the Transvaal with Sir Theophilus Shepstone.</p>
			<p>Returning to England he published, in 1882, his first book, <i>Cetewayo and His White Neighbours</i>, a political history. In 1886 <i>King Solomon’s Mines</i> appeared, and won immediate fame. As in the case of Stevenson’s <i>Treasure Island</i> its author had no idea of the popularity which awaited its issue, and, like that work also, it has been on e of the most widely circulating adventure books of recent years.</p>
			<p><i>King Solomon’s Mines</i> was written in the short space of three months.</p>
			<p>The late Mr. W. E. Henley read it, and formed a high opinion of its merits, and these views were shared by the publishers immediately they saw the manuscript.</p>
			<p>Its success was never in doubt. The work was welcomed at its birth by the public, and the press cordially recognised its merits.</p>
			<p>Since the advent of <i>King Solomon’s Mines</i>, Mr. Haggard has written many thrilling romances, novels which have circulated largely, and books on Agriculture which have achieved distinction. He has visited many lands, and the scenes in his novels picture many countries, but to Africa, the land of his greatest triumphs, he turns again and again for inspiration in projecting his famous romances.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
